Issue #278 - proposed new wording for context response + examples, in… (#348)
openid/authzen: api/authorization-api-1_0.md

In the following non-normative example, the PDP justifies its decision to the PEP by suggesting the environmental conditions did not meet its policies. Metadata pertaining to the request response times are also provided:

~~~ json
{
  "decision": false,
  "context": {
    "metadata": {
      "response-time": 60,
      "response-time-unit": "ms"
    },
    "environment": {
      "ip": "10.10.0.1",
      "datetime": "2025-06-27T18:03:07Z",
      "os": "ubuntu24.04.2LTS-AMDx64"
    }
  }
}
~~~
{: #response-with-environment-context-example title="Non-normative Example Response with Environment and Metadata Context"}

#### Non-normative Example 3: requesting step-up authentication
In the following non-normative example, the PDP requests a step-up authentication of the requesting subject, by signalling the required `acr` and `amr` access token claim values it expects to see in order to approve the request:

~~~ json
{
  "decision": false,
  "context": {
    "acr_values": "urn:com:example:loa:3",
    "amr_values": "mfa hwk"
  }
}
~~~
{: #response-with-step-up-example title="Non-normative Example Response with a step-up request Context"}

> Even though this specification doesn't enforce any semantics for the `context` response object, if provided at all, the PEP MUST be able to understand this object. 

Reviewer: This is quite a strong requirement. It should be included at top-level in the description. I do like the idea as it would prevent a lot of negotiation on whether PDP's support certain functionality.

It would make it a lot harder to add fields to the context though as all PEP's must then  be able to understand it.

Either way we should rephrase it from "MUST understand" to what the PEP should do if it *doesn't* understand. Something like this then?

```suggestion
If the PEP does not understand information in the `context` response object the PEP SHOULD interpret the request as having a `"decision"` field with the value`false`. 
```

Reviewer 2: @mtrimpe I disagree here - we cannot force a PEP to fail safe (though it sounds like the right behavior from a security mindset's PoV). Some implementations will want to fail open. The only option is to force the PEP to understand the object or fail using an error code at the discretion of the PEP. @baboulebou's wording reflects this better.

In the following non-normative example, the PDP justifies its decision by including environmental conditions that did not meet its policies. Metadata pertaining to the decision response times are also provided:

~~~ json
{
  "decision": false,
  "context": {
    "metadata": {
      "response-time": 60,
      "response-time-unit": "ms"
    },
    "environment": {
      "ip": "10.10.0.1",
      "datetime": "2025-06-27T18:03:07Z",
      "os": "ubuntu24.04.2LTS-AMDx64"
    }
  }
}
~~~
{: #response-with-environment-context-example title="Non-normative Example Response with Environment and Metadata Context"}

#### Non-normative Example 3: requesting step-up authentication
In the following non-normative example, the PDP requests a step-up authentication of the requesting subject, by signalling the required `acr` and `amr` access token claim values it expects to see in order to approve the request:

~~~ json
{
  "decision": false,
  "context": {
    "acr_values": "urn:com:example:loa:3",
    "amr_values": "mfa hwk"
  }
}
~~~
{: #response-with-step-up-example title="Non-normative Example Response with a step-up request Context"}

> Even though this specification doesn't enforce any semantics for the `context` response object, if provided at all, the PEP MUST be able to understand this object. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the PEP does not understand information in the `context` response object in the event of a `decision: true`, the PEP MAY choose to reject the decision.
```
